Slide 1


This is Ardavan Pedram presenting the first version of the linear algebra processor simulator.
This project was part of my PhD project in UT Austin and the Flame group.
My Supervisors were Professors Robert van de Geijn and Andreas Gerstlauer.

Slide 2
The details of the design are published in two publications in ASAP and IEEE Transactions of Computers that are in the references.
We have evidence that the same baseline architecture can perform Matrix Factorizations and Level-3 BLAS and even FFTs.

Slide 3

GEMM requires blocking that can be done in various ways
The best is the top branch implemented in GotoBlas and BLIS.
The choice is the same as what I independently arrived at.


Slide 4


At the bottom of the food chain
Inherently matmul can be composed of series of the Rank-1  updates.
Rank-1 Update is outer product of two vectors.

In particular a loop of rank-1 update both parallelizes computations and reduces memory traffic. Because columns A and rows of B are streamed in and there is full locality for elements of C.


Slide 5

What we present is the linear algebra core optimized to perform rank-1 updates.
The key features are the distributed control and memory, and broadcast buses as means of streaming data.


Slide 6

Let’s have top down view of the memory hierarchy
We can decompose the problem into series of blocked matrix multiply
that contain A column panel of A and a row panel of B to update a block of C. We call this rank-K update.


Slide 7

This version of the simulator focuses on one of these Rank-K updates.
The panel of A is further blocked.
Each block can fit in the aggregate local store of PEs in a single Core.



Slide 8
Further a Block of A is multiplied by a tinier panel of B to update its corresponding panel of C.
The little panels of B and C are streamed into and out of the core.


Slide 9

We can see how the computation boils down to a series of rank-1 updates.
Each element of the 4x4 block of C is owned by a PE and stored in its accumulator.


Slide 10

The data stored in the Core is in 2D round robin fashion.
We can see how a 16x16 block of A is distributed among the PEs depicted with different colors in the right.

Slide 11

Having 2D round Robin distribution
We show how two iterations of Rank-1 update are performed in the core
the first column of A owned by first columns of PE and first row of B owned by first Row of PEs are distributed through row and column broadcast buses respectively. A local Multiply accumulate operation is performed to update the 4x4 block of C.
In the next iteration same operation is performed but this time for the second column of A and second row of B fetched from second column and row of PEs respectively

Slide 12

The overall view is presented here.
This version of the simulator provided cycle accurater implementation for the top three level of pyramid.

We tried to keep the variables consistent with the paper.

Please don't hesitate to give us feedback on this simulator so we can improve the quality of our software for the coming versions.
























